# VATUSA Chicago ARTCC and VATUSA Indianapolis ARTCC Letter of Agreement

###### EFFECTIVE: 01/01/2017

## SUBJECT: Interfacility Coordination

### 1. Purpose:
This agreement establishes coordination procedures and defines delegation
of airspace between VATUSA Chicago ARTCC (ZAU) and VATUSA Indianapolis ARTCC
(ZID). This agreement is supplemental to procedures contained within FAA Order
7110.65.

### 2. Disclaimer:
Information contained herein is designed and specifically for use in a virtual
air traffic control environment. It is not applicable, nor should it be referenced for live
operations in the National Airspace System (NAS).

### 3. Cancelation:
VATUSA Chicago ARTCC and VATUSA Indianapolis ARTCC Letter
of Agreement dated January 31, 2010.

### 4. Responsibilities:
1. ZID ARTCC and all of its members must abide to the entirety of this document.
1. ZAU ARTCC and all of its members must abide to the entirety of this document.

### 5. Procedures
1. Each ARTCC must route/restrict aircraft in accordance with [Attachment A](attachment-a.md) and [Attachment B](attachment-b.md).
1. Transponder codes may be changed without coordination in an area of 30NM on either sides of the ZID/ZAU ARTCC common boundary, and the receiving controller must have control for turn up to 20 degrees left or right of course for aircraft within 20NM of the ZID/ZAU ARTCC common boundary.
1. For RNAV aircraft landing C90 area airport, Chicago ARTCC must have control for configuration-dependent STAR reroutes within 30NM of the ARTCC common boundary.
1. Aircraft whose destination airports lie within 60NM of the ZID/ZAU common boundary must enter the receiving ARTCC’s airspace AoB FL230 unless otherwise noted in [Attachment A](attachment-a.md) and/or [Attachment B](attachment-b.md), and the receiving ARTCC must have control for descents and turns.
1. Data block coordination and interim altitude procedures:
   1. Data blocks must reflect the aircraft’s assigned altitude at the time of
handoff.
   1. Handoffs must be directed to the appropriate sector for the aircraft’s altitude assignment Acceptance of a radar handoff constitutes approval coordination for that aircraft to climb or descend to the displayed altitude.
   1. Use of interim (temp.) altitudes is authorized between Chicago ARTCC and Indianapolis ARTCC. Use of interim altitudes must not be authorized to coordinate Inappropriate Altitude for Direction of Flight (IAFDOF), or to supersede altitude restrictions established within this Letter of Agreement.
1.  Aircraft unable to comply with required routes or altitudes must be coordinated with
the receiving ARTCC on an individual basis via verbal coordination.

### 6. Attachments:
1. [Attachment A - Permanent Route/Altitude Restrictions from ZAU to ZID](attachment-a.md)
1. [Attachment B - Permanent Route/Altitude Restrictions from ZID to ZAU](attachment-b.md)
1. [Attachment C - ZID Airspace Delegation to ZAU](attachment-c.md)
1. [Attachment D - ZAU Airspace Delegation to ZID](attachment-d.md)
